welcome to a state of sight I'm Isaac
Porter and this is your update in
ophthalmology and eye care and this
episode I would like to explain how we
handle astigmatism after corneal
transplants because many people they
have corneal transplants can develop a
stigmatism even large levels of
astigmatism afterwards as you remember
from our previous episode astigmatism is
an uneven curvature on the front part of
the eye on the cornea with a transplant
we replace the center part of the cornea
remove it and replace with a donor
cornea that is sewn into place with
stitches all the way around the edge
we take sometimes six months up to a
year or two to remove these stitches as
we need to and when we're doing that we
can selectively take out certain ones to
try and control the astigmatism as it's
healing but like we've learned from
doing transplants we think the primary
determination of the astigmatism as the
wound is healing is actually from
changes in the tissue and scarring as
the wound heals because of this we can
only control so much by removing the
stitches that are placed at the time of
surgery so then we have to go to other
ways to control the astigmatism if it's
a high enough level wear glasses or
contact lenses including rigid contact
lenses can't get the astigmatism control
well enough we can do this surgically by
modifying the wound by placing extra
incisions in the cornea and helping to
relax the wound in certain areas or by
placing extra stitches at the same time
to temporarily steep in other parts of
the cornea to try and get the
astigmatism reduced and where we need it
to be because of this the wound can be
temporarily weakened but it may have
been too strong of a healing
process in that area the cause the
astigmatism in the first place another
way the we can manage the astigmatism is
with laser and this is the same laser
that we use to do treatments with LASIK
and PRK and it can be very effective and
very accurate in lowering the
astigmatism because it smooths out the
areas using the laser in order to get it
more round we have to be careful if the
person had a transplant because of
keratoconus or other diseases that cause
thinning and changes in the cornea
because by thinning the cornea further
with a laser it can put them at higher
risk possibly also when we're using a
laser we always think about the accuracy
from using the laser because it can be
more accurate than other ways of
reducing a stigmatism so if you have a
stigmatism after a corneal graft or any
questions about corneal grafts please
post will be happy to interact with you
and we look forward to seeing you again
soon next time on a state of sight